# Overview

See the live site here: https://nickcrider.github.io/ot-docs/

Proof of concept for breaking the Opentrons API Documentation into a separate repository written in Markdown instead of reST.

Current implimentation uses [Material for MkDocs](https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material)

This has some neat advantages, including:
- Enables separate release cadences for the Docs from the monorepo
- Markdown is easiser to use and more portable than reST
- Lowers the bar to contributing/changing the docs
- Modern tools encorage user interaction

# Contributing

We love user contributions! See the [instructions](CONTRIBUTING.md) on how to submit your changes to the docs. While not strictly required, you'll probably want to follow the instructions below to check your work locally before exposing it to the rest of the world.

# Setup

Just like the [Opentrons Monorepo](https://github.com/Opentrons/opentrons/blob/edge/CONTRIBUTING.md#environment-and-repository), you'll need `git`, `pipenv`, and `make` installed. Once you've gotten that taken care of, you can clone the repo, use `make` to install the dependencies, and then run the development server:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/nickcrider/ot-docs.git
cd ot-docs
make setup
make serve
```
You should now be able to find the docs at `http://localhost:8000` the server watches files for changes and automatically reloads

# Notes

See here for a [discussion of Why I chose Markdown](CONTRIBUTING.md#why-markdown)?

The API reference documentation is auto-generated during the build process from the current version of the `opentrons` package in PyPi.
The process works like this:

1. Sphinx builds the API reference from a reST file using the [sphinx-material](https://github.com/bashtage/sphinx-material) template.
2. Using Jinja overrides, the output is trimmed to just the main `<article>` and sidebar content.
3. Scoped CSS is used to overide conflicting styles from the two templates (see `sphinx/templates/layout.html`).
4. The raw HTML generated by sphinx is included in the markdown file and processed by MkDocs



# Todo

This is a very early proof of concept. It's more of a playground to explore 
the organization/function of the docs, while working within the constraints of
the authoring tool. It's far from production-ready. Lots of work remains:

- Continue to fine tune semantic organization
- Investigate the possibility of creating automatic links to API reference slugs
- Think about SEO
- Lots of webdesign stuff
- Get buy in from relevant teams on content & organization 
